= power_mitten

home :: https://github.com/att-cloud/power_mitten
bugs :: https://github.com/att-cloud/power_mitten/issues

== Description

A DRb-based cloud processing toolkit.

== Features

* DRb-based multiprocess coordination
* Runs on OpenStack or locally
* Logs to syslog

== Running Locally

power_mitten uses the +mitten+ executable to control processes.  The +mitten+
executable depends upon the <code>~/.power_mitten</code> configuration file.

At this time it must contain OpenStack and swift credential information even
when running locally.  Use this dummy configuration:

  openstack_auth_url: https://auth.iad1.attcompute.com/v2.0/tokens
  openstack_tenant:   TENANT
  openstack_username: USERNAME
  openstack_api_key:  PASSWORD
  swift_uri:      https://data.iad1.attstorage.com/auth/
  swift_username: COLLECTION:USERNAME
  swift_key:      PASSWORD

First, start a control task:

  $ mitten startup --type Control --localhost

All +mitten+ processes log to syslog.  On OS X you can use Console.app to see
these logs.

The control task coordinates shared resources such as mutexes and queues.
Alongside the control task is a Rinda:RingServer which other mitten services
to find each other.

When using <code>mitten startup</code> locally you must give it a type.  When
run in the cloud +mitten+ automatically determines this from the VM name.

You can then start the console:

  $ mitten console --localhost

This will show you all the running processes and information about their
state.  (If you start the console first it will wait for a control task.)

You will see output similar to this:

  control pid 62724 at kault, 29572 RSS, 0 children
  Console pid 63498 at kault, 40048 RSS (me)
  RingServer 3✓ 3⤓ 0☠ pid 62725 at kault, 29764 RSS

To start a +mitten+ task give the task name as the type for +startup+ along
with the number of workers to start:

  $ mitten startup --type YourTask --localhost --workers 1

This will start one process of YourTask.  +mitten+ will manage multiple
workers doing the same task if you tell it to launch more.

To help debug your task, run it with the <code>--once</code> option:

  $ mitten startup --type YourTask --localhost --workers 1 --once

Ordinarily +mitten+ will restart your task upon exceptions, but with
<code>--once</code> it will exit instead.

== Install

  sudo gem install power_mitten

== Developers

After checking out the source, run:

  $ rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests and generate
the RDoc.

== License

Copyright (c) AT&T

